# Why we have React?


4 key points of React: 
   1. Don't touch the DOM. React will do it.
   2. Build websites like lego blocks
   3. Unidirectional data flow
   4. 

The name React is simply saying hey based on whatever the state or data of the app, I'm just going to `REACT` to it and change everything for you.

React introduces the concept that providing a javascript object (`state` or `data`), without touching the DOM.

React is data/state driven => Changing data => Changing the View

React comes up with a novel concept => a more declarative approach

First, we need to understand that `In order for the DOM to change, the browser has to do two really intensive operations` One is to repaint, that is to change an element and added onto a page and then re-float which is to recalculate the layout of the page and move things around

## Imperative VS Declarative

An imperative paradigm is you directly change individual parts of your app in response to various user events 
Problems with the imperative cases is difficult to see the relationships between events and all these edge cases => Angular use this way


An declarative approach is that we declare what the state or data of our app should be like, and based on this state and react is going to make changes. We don’t need to directly say do this and do that; one by one what should happen. Instead, we tell React this is the sate of our app and React automatically just does it for us

React is been designed by the idea of creating reusable and share component, have the idea that have the smaller components to build larger components, like lego blocks. The idea of components and React in a simple term is just plain javascript functions/classes that we write. `Components are simply just javascript functions that received some sort of input(`state` and `data`), attributes(`props`).`