# State vs Props

* In React, usually the parent component has state, and whenever something changes in the state. It will trickle down. So that the `state` gets turned into  `props` into all these little components.

* `state` usually lives in just on location or a specific `state` only on one location and it trickles down as `props`.

* If a `state` changes in the parent component, all the chidren component which contains that `state` as `prop` will also get re-render

### onChange property

* `onChange` property will fire a synthetic event which is essentially just a event in our browser and it's a native event

* `e.taget` is the HTML element itself

```JavaScript
<input type="search" onChange={e => console.log(e.target)}/>
```
It will returns: `<input type="search">`

### SetState()

* `setState()` is an asynchronous function call

* We will never run `setState()` function in `render` function! This is because every time we call `setState()`, React will re-render.
Every time, React renders, it will call that `state `. It's just going to create a loop. 

* If we want to see our state change right after it changes, we can pass a second arguement to the `setState()` function. 

```Javascript
<input 
    type='search'
    placeholder='search something'
    onChange={ e => {
        this.setState({someState: e.target.value}, () => console.log(this.state))
    }}
/>
```
Here we are actually defining the function and NOT running it! We are just saying this is anonymous function that gets triggered onChange

### Side notes about Async vs Sync
* `Synchronous` action is something we can expect to happen almost immediately and Javascript knows the amount of time it will take. So Javascript will wait for that thing to finish before it continues.

*  `Asynchronous` action is something that actually takes an indefinite amount of time that Javascript does not know. So it would actually run the rest of the code after and then when the asynchronous event finishes, it then runs that finished event

